# NORMALITY-ASSUMPTION-ON-EXPONENTIAL-QUALITY-CHARACTERISTICS-IN-STATISTICAL-QUALITY-CONTROL

## In real life, many phenomena can be approximated by a Normal distribution, also known as a Gaussian distribution. This is due to the Central Limit Theorem, which states that the sum or average of a large number of independent and identically distributed random variables tends to follow a Normal distribution. However, it is important to note that not all phenomena follow a normal distribution. There are many instances where other types of distributions may be more appropriate, such as an exponential distribution for the lifespan of batteries. Current study is based on a dataset of Li-ion batteries and their lifespan released by NASA. The lifespans are measured in hours. The main objective of this study is to show how much the conclusions differ if we use the Exponential and Normal characteristics on the same data which actually follows Exponential distribution. Also to show the amount of change in the mean and standard deviation if the sample size varies. In this study we are going to use methods related to control charts. Here we are going to estimate the control limits of two types of control charts such as (X̅-R) chart and (X̅-S) chart using both Exponential and Normal distributional assumptions and analyse them. We will also prepare some graphs using those control limits and compare them to see the extent of difference between them. We are also going to use testing of hypothesis for both mean and standard deviation for different sample sizes and compare them according to our need.
